 42’s Pedagogy Works & The piscine is totally worth It

After one whole month of intensive training at 42 I want to share with the world that the piscine works. I can say with complete confidence that if you make it to the end you will come out a better programmer. I can also say as I have many times before and will say forever, the piscine is hard. The truth is they throw literally everything they can at you. More than just programming and the language you are learning, there are many life skills they are trying to see if you possess or can grasp along the way. To do this 42 overwhelms you in as many ways as possible.

To start off just the daily exercises are overwhelming. From the first day forward a nearly unsurmountable amount of work is assigned. It is a lot to accomplish because not only do you have to teach yourself the material, you have complete the assignments as well. The next day, as more work is being assigned you have to start grading your peers. Then you have to start preparing for the exam. This piling of tasks is just regular procedure at 42.

The exam just like everything else at 42 will really test you. Directly following the exam you have to start work on a group project. Overlapping the group project with a large personal project adds yet another layer of difficulty. These two large tasks combine to make for interesting weekends full of extreme challenges.

Why am I telling you all of this for like the fifth time in this blog? I think in order to say it works, I should first explain what it is. All of these overwhelming tasks and constant learning combine for a truly unique education. One could say I was skeptical before I came to Fremont, but now after my month is over I can promise you their pedagogy works. I have learned more in the last month than I have in a year of teaching myself at home.

What have I learned?  To start I learned how to operate the command line and Terminal. I learned how to git push and pull. I learned how to use ldap and the man. Then I actually started learning how to build functions and programs via string manipulation. Then I learned about pointers and recursion. This is all in the first week. We than began building our own library functions and then libraries. Then we learned how to take arguments. Followed by memory allocation, headers, and define.

This all led to the 24 hour coding experience. After the following day of grasping Makefiles and function pointers we had finally made it halfway. The following week we learned lists and binary trees. As well as read, write and open. Then practiced putting it all together for big projects. The final week was reserved for a really large project, but I spent most of my week mastering all of the functions we had prepared along the way. These are just the programming skills I learned. To most people some of this may sound like gibberish but that is what amazes me. A month ago this was all gibberish to me. As I mentioned earlier piling all of  this work on so fast teaches you many life skills as well.

Along the way of the piscine I improved on or acquired many skills that are necessary outside of computer science. For example leaning so much on my fellow students for guidance taught me to be far more social, less introverted and to truly listen to what people are explaining. Being so overwhelmed with work taught me better time management, and that there is more time in a day than you realize. Getting no real help from the staff taught me to educate myself and how to refine my search results to get exactly what I wanted. Working consistently for 30 days straight taught me how to better balance sleep, hygiene, and nutrition. Mostly the whole experience made me realize that I am far more capable than I realized.

After the piscine I can at least say I understand all of these things. I am far from mastering any of them but I am planning on doing that if I actually get accepted to 42. I can’t preach it enough I learned all of this in a month. I had so many great experiences and met so many amazing people, I actually miss it. So, whether I become a student at 42 or not, one thing I can truly say is that the piscine IS WORTH IT.
