 How to get into 42? 8 steps to get accepted at 42


Here is a step by step process of everything you have to do to get accepted to the revolutionary free coding University 42.

I applied for 42 in May of 2016. I applied to the 42 campus in Fremont, Ca. I have been invited to attend the piscine and compete for a spot at the University. Here is everything you have to do to get the same opportunity.

1. Do your research.

You’ve already started in the right direction. I mean you are here right? 42 is completely different than any other University on the planet. So before you jump right in and apply, take some time to make sure it is right for you.

In my previous posts I explain What 42 is. If you haven’t read that start there. At the end there is a long list of relative links. Including the one you are most interested in, right on top.

2. Pre-Register at www.42.us.org

Visit the site of the US school at the above URL. The Front page gives you an opportunity to register, however if you haven’t already I encourage you to read every page on this site. Then come back to the homepage, by then you should be anxious to register anyway. After you register you will have access to a candidature site where you can begin your process of becoming a 42 student.

If you’re interested in applying to the school in Paris, France look here: www.42.fr

3. Take the Online Skills Tests

After you register you should receive an email shortly. In the email they should explain the next couple of steps you have to take. Your next step is to complete two skill games. You have as much time as you like to complete them. The first one is short but the second takes about two hours. I strongly recommend you are well rested and in a comfortable environment.

Don’t be intimidated. The tests aren’t easy but anyone can attempt them. The only previous knowledge or experience you need is the ability to operate a computer. I promise that is it.

4. Complete a Check In

It only takes a couple of days, but soon you should receive an email verifying if you are #BornToCode. After receiving this email breathe a big sigh of relief. You’re in. You have a chance to compete in the piscine. What is the piscine, well we will get to that in a second. There are a few more steps you have to take.

The Check In is a chance for the University staff to explain to you in person what they are offering. They give you a lot of relevant information, an opportunity to ask questions and you get a chance to see for the first time what actual 42 students do.

There are two ways to attend the check in. Either in person at the campus in Fremont, Ca or online via a youtube live broadcast and forum. You will have to register for these on the candidature site you were granted access to after you apply.

42 opens new check in dates regularly so check back often or sign up via Twitter to be notified when new slots open up.

5. Paperwork

Following the Check In you have to fill out a few online forms.

    The Charter: A description of what you can expect from the university and what it can expect from you.
    Administrative information: A few details to identify you. (If you’re interested in a dorm you must check the asking room box and provide proof you can live in the US on this page)
    Regulations for 42: A list of rules all students are expected to abide.

Carefully read each page before signing as there is very important information. Once complete you can finally register for the piscine.

6. Register for the Piscine

This is the final step before you at last get to code. There are a few opportunities a year to attend a piscine. Before you register I truly hope you know what you are signing up for.

The piscine is a 30 day computer programming bootcamp. It is different because you are expected to be on campus  coding and solving problems with other hopefuls just like you. For 15 hours a day. They offer dorms but only to 300 students.  Others are expected to camp in the parking lot, sleep inside on air mattresses or find other accommodations. Students also have access to a cafeteria serving meals at a reasonable price 3 times a day.

If you are still interested in 42 then it is time to take the ultimate leap of faith and actually register. Pick which piscine you want to attend. They will accept around 1000 students to each piscine and only about a third will be permitted to enter the University.

7. La Piscine

For some students the piscine will be their first time on campus. It may also be their first time in the Silicon Valley, California or even the US. At 42 your background doesn’t matter. That is part of the beauty; we all get the same opportunity. Here at the piscine this is exemplified  when we are all given the same information. How you use it and the resources around you will determine if you sink or swim.

If you make it to the end of the thirty days you will be evaluated to see if you can succeed in the environment at 42.

8. Get a Revolutionary Free Education

Approximately two weeks after the completion of your piscine you will receive your golden ticket. A letter of admission to 42. You will be prompted to find acomodations in Fremont and come to school in November. If you made it this far out of curiosity then you might as well just join us. It’s free plus who couldn’t use 3 to 5 years of Professional Development in Computer Programming.
