Corrections 42’s Peer to Peer Review.

One of the most unique aspects of 42 is it’s reliance on the students. In the piscine we teach each other, we work together to find solutions and we even grade one another. This grading process is called corrections but it works more like a peer review.

Everyday students complete a long list of exercises and after the time is up, they are no longer allowed to make changes to their solutions. At this time they can begin signing up to let other students evaluate their results. Every student must sign up to get each project reviewed three times.

This process is called a defense. The student getting evaluated must open every exercise they have completed, explain what it means and why it works. More than that they need to show an understanding of how they got there and why they chose that method. Otherwise, it is apparent they copied their code from the internet or more likely their neighbor.

In order to get evaluated the students spend correction points. The correction points work like currency. Upon every review a correction point is granted. Then in order to get evaluated a point must be spent. It creates this constant exchange of points and more importantly information.

By communicating with other students, sharing ideas and code, you get regular feedback from the community on what about your codes works, and if you’re doing well or not. In reality however, every evaluation is an opportunity for whole array of new experiences.

First of all, you get to meet someone new. If you’re smart you take the opportunity and get to know them. Ask them where they are from, how they found 42, what their previous experience in programming is but most importantly how they are doing with the current problem set.

I preach it everyday. Corrections are not about getting a grade. They are not about getting more correction points. They are about communicating with your peers and getting a whole new perspective and approach to solving a problem. You are selling yourself short if you don’t take every correction as an opportunity to learn. The students here are smart and can come up with completely unique solutions. Most of them also have a lot of tips and tricks to working more efficiently. I take something new from every good review I get or give.
