 A long night at the Piscine. 42’s 24 Hours of Coding

So on Thursday we began a night of unbelievable difficulty. After working all day on projects from both the previous day and the next one, we had to begin work on a third days exercises. This is nothing unusual for the piscine as we are often over piled with work, often far more than is reasonable. However, this third day they threw at us had a giant curve.

There were 24 exercises and we only had access to one every hour. Therefore the only way to get credit for all of them would be to stay up for 24 hours straight. I am sorry that isn’t even correct. I had already been up for 11 hours when this marathon began. So if I wanted to attempt every exercise I would have to stay up for 35 hours straight. Oops, my bad I forgot to mention that directly following the 24 hours of exercises was a 4 hour exam.

That is nearly 40 hours of work for 2 days. Correct me if I am wrong but I am pretty sure there are only 48 hours in that time frame. I believe the whole thing is not really about working hard and getting everything done but instead is a test of time management. I think the staff wants to see how you handle yourself being really overwhelmed.

Personally, I did not handle it well. I stayed up way too late and payed for it for days thereafter. Not only that but I did terribly on the exam, for a few reasons, but one of them because I was exhausted.

With that in mind, and I know it may sound crazy, but I really enjoyed day09. The exercises were hard but just doable in an hour timeframe. So, I enjoyed the challenge. So much so that I really didn’t care to go to bed.

Before the day began I knew it was coming. I had a fail proof plan to tackle this incoming apocalypse, but I can tell you it had fallen apart before the actual exercises started at 5:42pm. I wanted to get the exercises done in the early part of the hour and nap in my chair until the next exercise began. I also planned on working on the previous day as well as the next. The only thing I ended up doing was working on each hours exercise for the whole hour every hour.

See, each exercise began with a forward that told a story, chapter by chapter. The story is called The Spy Who Coded Me and is a Austin Powers spoof. As usual the forward and story are completely irrelevant to the exercises but entertaining none the less. On this night however, every hour on the 42nd minute the Austin Powers theme song was blared across the cluster, which signified the beginning of the next exercise. It was a constant race against the clock.

It was apparent early in the evening that most people weren’t even going to try. Instead, most just went to bed as usual and came in the morning hoping to catch up. I lasted until about 4 am and only skipped one exercise. Eventually, I knew if I wanted any rest I would have to call it a night. By the time I went to bed there were maybe 10 people left in the lab. By the next morning I know of only one person who had stayed up the entire night. But even he went to bed well before the 24 hours was through.

The Spy Who Coded me was a fun and interesting challenge, however it was certainly HARD. To any potential 42 candidates I recommend you tackle this day with a much better plan than I did. Most importantly recognize that sleep is vital, throughout the piscine. Do anything you can to complete the projects from earlier in the week before day 9 starts. I wouldn’t wish this task on anyone, that is unless you are like most of the students at this school and really enjoy ridiculous challenges.
