Exploring California. My experience after the piscine.
August 25, 2016

How do you recover from the piscine? What can you do to unwind after 30 straight 15 hour days? Can you even get your brain to rest after solving nearly one hundred problems? I can tell you from experience that it isn’t easy. I can also tell you my solution.

VACATION!!!

That is right, I am certain that anyone who survives the whole 30 days of the piscine has probably lost their mind. I think the best way to get it back is with a vacation. Ideally, with family. Fortunately for me, I was already away from home and my brother had come to visit. I had already traveled to a new state. I just hadn’t had the chance to explore it.

My goal with this post is to recap my trip exploring the area surrounding 42. I am trying to make a point to people that aren’t from California. You are surrounded on all sides by some of America’s true masterpieces. Whenever you get a chance, whether it is after the piscine, after you get accepted, once you start your internship explore these iconic landmarks. I jam packed them all in a week but I suggest take a weekend for yourself every now and again to explore any of them individually. You work hard, get out and relax every once in a while.

In Ohio, California is a place of dreams. Supposedly, it’s always Sunny, it is where the movie stars are, everybody is beautiful, rich and happy, and they all live creative spontaneous lives.  I have already attested to the weather but I will say it again. In Fremont, it is Sunny bright and beautiful every day. However, I didn’t want to stay in Fremont, I had already been there for a month, I wanted to delve into something new.

Well, I didn’t make it very far. I spent my first night after the piscine in the absolute closest hotel I could find. Why? Well, I wanted to sleep. Like a lot. At least that was the plan. I had just spent all month sleeping only 5 hours a night. I knew how bad I wanted to get into 42. I didn’t know what that required but I figured the more time I spent there the better. I had a first in last out agenda and thus, I was tired.

Of course, my body was used to this schedule so I was right back up at 7am. My plan all along had been to travel to San Francisco, the golden city. However, this particular morning I decided to explore Newark. I found an amazing restaurant, 85° cafe & bakery, caught some Pokemon in the nearby parks and went to the Ardenwood Historic Farm. To all 42 students anytime you need a break from working, walking around Newark is extremely relaxing. The parks are beautiful, peaceful, and full of Pokemon.

It was time to find out if the same was true for San Fransisco. My brother and I had reservations at a hostel in City Center. We took an Uber there and got situated. As this was my first time in a hostel I did not know what to expect. Honestly, I loved it. There were people there from all over the world, just like 42. They served breakfast every morning which was a great way to meet new people. They hosted trips and movie nights. It was a great experience.

After getting situated we set out to explore San Francisco. As we weren’t far from City Hall we headed there first. The building was quite astonishing but the courtyard out front made very real the homeless situation in San Francisco. A problem prevalent in every corner of the city. On our way back to the hostel we ate at a wonderful sandwich shop called, The Chairman. After relaxing in the hostel for a little while we decided “when in Rome”. We were in San Francisco right, might as well check out one of America’s most iconic landmarks. The Golden Gate Bridge.

We took an uber to the base of the bridge; it was about 6pm. Once there we realized how ill-prepared we were to venture across it. The sun was setting, the wind was blowing, and it was quite cold. We decided to call it a night and take on the bridge in the morning. Since the sun had set, my brother and I made ourselves at home in San Francisco by finding a bar with a pool table and playing until the late hours of the night.

The next morning we returned to the golden gate bridge with extra layers and determination in our eyes. Fortunately, this particular morning it was beautiful out. The closer and closer I got to the bridge the more and more it’s magnificence came into perspective. It is truly a one of a kind piece of engineering. While crossing you get a sense of its sheer magnitude and yet unwavering stability. During our stay in San Francisco, we somehow made our way back there every day. Traversing across it is refreshing and the excitement of being 250 feet off the ground, over the ocean, never recedes.

On our second trip across the bridge, we explored the north side. Sausalito a charming hillside community that overlooks the bay. Had lunch there and explored a marina. We then traversed back to the base of the bridge, a retired military base called Fort Baker. From there we found a path that led to the highest point you can view the bridge from. That photo above of the bridge is from opposite sides on different days. The bridge and the parks on each side of it are true gems of San Francisco.

My brother and I had an opportunity to explore another one after an amazing lunch at Union Square. An amazing park not far from the south end of the bridge is Golden Gate Park. With over a thousand acres of green space, it is beautiful, clean, and filled with architectural wonders. We explored about a quarter of it before finding the botanical gardens. The whole park is quite a masterpiece. From there we explored the famed Haight Street. It is quite long but to get a sense of its culture it’s helpful to explore the length of it.

I just couldn’t help myself. I traveled to nearly every tourist destination I could think of in San Francisco. Our next stop was Pier 39. We walked around had a few beers at different restaurants and admired the sea lions for a few hours. A few piers north at pier 45 was another amazing experience at the Musée Mécanique. An old time arcade with a whole slew of entertaining machines. A pretty cool secret I found was a parking garage across from Pier 39. At the bottom of this article is a panoramic from the top. From atop Pier 39 parking garage, I was able to see nearly every San Francisco tourist attraction.

On our way back to our hostel we took the time to climb another San Francisco landmark. Lombard street. I was more impressed by the gardens and houses that line the sides of it. I can’t deny it was entertaining watching tourist after tourist zig-zagging down the streetOur final day in San Francisco started at Coit Tower. We had no plans after that and decided to just walk along the bay one last time. That is just something you don’t get to experience in Ohio. However, for my last two days in California, I had big plans. See from the excellent recommendation of our wonderful staff during the piscine, I was convinced I had to go to Yosemite. After a full nights rest, my brother and I got up bright and early, rented a car, and started the three-hour drive to Yosemite National Park.

Turns out 3 hours just gets you to the edge of Yosemite. Our hotel was 2 hours on the other side of that at Mammoth Lakes. We started our trip by driving right into the heart of Yosemite, Yosemite Valley. From here you get endless breathtaking views as you are surrounded on all sides by mountains on a scale I had never really experienced. We drove straight to one of Yosemite’s most iconic viewpoints, made famous thanks to Mac backgrounds everywhere, Tunnel View. From there you see the massive El Capitan, and off in the background a beautiful view of the half dome. Since the weather was permitting I convinced my brother to take the long winding drive to the top, called glacier point. From here after a short hike, you can stand cliffside and get an up-close view of the Half Dome. It doesn’t matter where you are in this National Park. There is always an awe-inspiring view right around the corner.

To all 42 students. With the exception of Yosemite, everything I explored here is less than an hour from 42.  They’re 100% worth your time. Not to mention the countless things I left out. Anytime you can I recommend, go, spend some time by the bay. It is actually as easy as taking a left out of the parking lot. Something about it is just refreshing. It beats peering out the window inches away from your computer.

Overall, It was one of the best, most needed, experiences of my life. Fortunately, since I am a cadet I will have nearly 4 years, probably more, to really get to know this side of America. I hope to explore all parts of the west coast. In addition, I plan to drive across America, from Columbus, Ohio to 42. During that trip, I hope to explore the so-called “Fly Over States.” Look for that post here in the My Experience section of the blog.
