My Experience: Getting to Fremont and Checking into the Dorms at 42

Today was my first day on campus and in all I can truly say is it was a good one. It started out a little scary but by the time I had went to sleep all was well.

I began my journey in Indian Lake, Ohio. I spent the night with my father so he could take me to the airport. We headed for the Dayton airport at approximately 4:30. Unfortunately, I was mistaken as to what time my flight began to board. I did make it on time, but not in time to check my bags. I was beginning to freak out.  Between my mother who is a flight attendant and the wonderful lady at the American Airlines counter, we found several other options. If I wanted to get to Fremont in time for the Check In I would have to drive to the Columbus airport. I did just that.

On the way I noticed I was going to have the same problem. I realized I would make it on time to board but not in time to check my bags. My solution, forget it all. I completely unloaded my suitcase, picked out only the essentials, and jammed packed everything into my backpack. I ended up with about 5 days worth of clothes and the bathroom necessities. I boarded the plane with just that, my carry on and a pillow.

From there however it was smooth sailing and I enjoyed the rest of my evening. I was due to land in San Jose at 10am but with the delay I didn’t arrive until 12:30 PST. It was still extremely early. We weren’t supposed to arrive at the dorms until 6pm. I sat around thinking about what to do for a minute. Did I want to explore around San Jose? Head out to Fremont and admire the University? Or possibly even head to San Fransisco and check it out.

I decided I should go ahead and get to my destination. I called an Uber and to my surprise it saved me over 60 dollars. Turns out, I was pooling with someone who had a similar destination. His name was Dylan and as we talked on our ride we realized we were both going to 42.

Dylan was from Texas and had just landed in San Jose like me. A short 30 minutes later we finally got to lay our eyes upon the University. The taxi dropped us off but it seemed apparent  we were the only ones there. We walked around and peeked our heads in each window hoping to catch a glimpse of the 1000 iMacs we knew existed. Those aren’t on the first floor, so we decided to go drop our stuff off at the dorms. It was all locked up as well, but fortunately there were two students who had also showed up far too early.

Joe and Matt, from SoCal and Washington state. They were just goofing off and after a little while we decided to head into town and see what Fremont had to offer. This was our first time and to get there we took the road less traveled. We had to traverse this wasteland of a field, cross some train tracks and jump a wall. We did it anyway only to learn on a later trip that there is a much more direct route.

I quickly got lost from the group searching for a wall charger. I went to every strip mall near by and can honestly say I am content with the shopping and dining options around. I found what I was looking for at CVS. I then went to a department store called Ross to buy a blanket. As I came out of the store I got lucky and there was the rest of my group. We headed back but we were still a couple of hours away from Check In. We were sitting outside the dorms when we finally talked to some 42 staff.

The staff was still cleaning out some of the dorms and asked if we would lend a hand. As a group we obliged, and thanks to our assistance we all got our dorms a little early. I ended up rooming with Dylan, while Joe and Matt bunked across the hall. Its was about 5 0′ clock and other students were beginning to line up at the door.

At six they started letting everyone in. They gave them keys, a July piscine bracelet(which also determines if you are old enough to drink) and a key card to get in and out of the buildings. We were all hanging out and introducing ourselves. Asking questions like Where are you from? How did you here about this place? What is your experience with code? We were already communicating and getting to know each other.

My night ended with about an hour around a bonfire. Anyone who knows me can appreciate how much I enjoyed that. It was a lot like home and made me a little more comfortable opening up. I can tell this school is filled with intelligent and interesting people, who like me are extremely curious about Computer Science. I am not 100% sure what the next month will bring but I find comfort in knowing that these are my peers.
