Getting accepted to 42. What to do and what not to do.
September 21, 2016

This post is meant to help students who passed their admissions tests and have decided to attend a piscine.

The truth is no one really knows what 42’s selection criteria are. The staff is very diligent about making sure that secret stays between them. Since I got accepted and no one has the magic formula I thought it would be helpful to dish out the best advice I can give to potential pisciners.

Every time I talk to a student who is attending the piscine they are curious what the trick is. What are they looking for? Am I going to get kicked out if I do this? How are you supposed to get all of this done? What’s the secret? Did you pass this test or that project? These are questions I hear nearly every time. My answer? Well, it’s complicated.

I think most pisciners start off thinking about 42 the wrong way. In America, we have this mindset that everything is a competition. This just doesn’t apply to the piscine. As a whole, you want to be successful. That doesn’t mean passing every project every day. It means no man left behind. It means helping each other grasp the difficult concepts being thrown at you each day. If you’re a great programmer help people who are struggling. If you’re struggling don’t be afraid to ask for help. Then once you grasp something, share your knowledge with anyone who is struggling just like you were. I think 42 is mostly looking for people who are a part of the community in this way.

Whether you can manage to move past the concept of a competition or not there are still 3 other things I tell every prospective 42 student.

First, BE THERE. If you are going to go through the piscine, spend as much time there as humanly possible. The more you are there, the more you are helping people, getting help, solving problems and therefore LEARNING. I mean that is the goal correct? Hours spent in the lab directly correlate to your success at 42. The staff just wants to see that you’re committed.

Second, being there is not enough. You have to work your ass off. Do as many problems, correct as many people, complete as many rushes, do as many exams as you possibly can. During your piscine you will often see people getting distracted playing games, watching youtube videos, napping. Do not fall into this trap. If you need a break take a lap around the building, or better yet go help someone else with a problem you have solved. Stay focused work as hard as you can to get as far as practical each and every day.

My third point is probably the most important. Get to know everybody. Don’t wait until a correction to introduce yourself. Being social and getting to know your whole piscine is what truly makes the experience unique. Everyone in the piscine with you is struggling to go through the same problems, is struggling with the same mental barriers and is running into the same mechanical errors. Afterward, there is a sense of camaraderie. It is a family. You all survived this experience together. With enough luck, everyone who makes it to the end with you will get in. It will be those same people you turn to for help after being accepted.

The whole goal of the piscine is to teach you a programming language and introduce you to new tools and concepts. This particular piscine just also decides whether you get accepted or not. Enjoy your piscine and learn as much as you can possibly grasp in one month. Meet as many new people and experience as many new things as possible. I think with all of these things in mind you are well on your way to passing the piscine. Congratulations on making it this far, just know you’re one month away from a revolutionary, one of a kind, free education. GOOD LUCK!
