I made it!!! I got accepted to 42!!!
August 20, 2016

I did it!!!

I made it!!!

I’m becoming a Software Developer!!!

What is with all of the excitement? Why so many exclamation points? Well, sometimes dreams do come true.

I got accepted to 42!!!

It is just so satisfying. I have waited weeks in agony and finally I know that all of my hard work and giant leaps of faith have paid off. I have thought from the very beginning that 42 was a golden opportunity and the piscine has proven to me that I was right. There are just so many reasons to be excited.

I am mostly excited that I will get to learn something new that completely fascinates me. Computer programming grabs my curiosity and uses it to let me build and explore with an entirely new perspective. I enjoy taking small functions and combining them into something amazing. Every time an entire program works and comes together it is fist-pumpingly satisfying. Literally, I do victory laps.

I love learning at 42. The projects are extremely challenging yet with enough help from my peers, a few corrections, a lot of hard work and endless trial and error I always manage to complete them. Along the way the I learn from every mistake I made. It is all deeply ingrained because often I spend hours solving each problem. I just look forward to getting back to this way of life.

I look forward to returning to my friends and beginning our adventure as full-time students. I can’t wait to return to leveling up. I want to explore the projects and see every amazing thing I will get to build over the next 3 years. I am excited to see the staff again and see if they help now that we’re students. Simply put, I want to get back on campus and start school again.

I am ecstatic to announce I will be attending 42 US for their very first start date September 21, 2016. It is going to be rough getting my finances together, terminating my lease and bills, and quitting my job. Honestly, it stresses me out just thinking about it. Mostly, I am saddened by the thought of  leaving my family behind. But guess what, there is a bright shiny light at the end of the tunnel. That is, once I get to California, I WILL BE A STUDENT AT 42!!!
