 Navigating Intra. 42’s website for students.

At the revolutionary coding university 42 things are done differently. Normally, on the first day of class teachers hand out a syllabus. A good syllabus will tell students what they will be learning, how, and with what materials. Since 42 has no teachers students have to get their assignments from somewhere else. On a 42 student’s first day of school they get one thing a login.

The login is used to sign in to any one of 42’s thousand plus iMacs. More importantly it is used to sign into Intra. Intra is 42’s hub for everything. It is a website which contains our projects, educational videos, a forum and the dashboard. The dashboard provides a one page view of everything that must be completed that day.

The intranet is the place to find the projects and their attachments. Some of them are recommended to you, some others are not, and some are forbidden. There are several different pages to navigate relating to projects. On the dashboard the projects page lists everything you are working on. Clicking on any of the projects brings up a statistics page which shows the success/fail rate for anyone who has attempted the project. It also shows a comparison between the results of all students at all 42’s campuses. The personal projects page gives each student a countdown to when a project is due and a link to turn it in. Intra is the main tool for managing projects effectively, which is a much more difficult task than it may seem.

Beyond managing projects effectively students also have to find time to correct and grade one another. On Intra this is made simple. Well, the process is simple but actually finding time to do the corrections can be difficult. On the dashboard there is a place where all of the pending corrections for the day are displayed. There is also a link to manage slots. Here students can open up a chunk of time that they will be on campus and available to correct and grade their peers. By clicking any of the time slots other students can easily sign up to be graded. It is a very interesting process that if used efficiently can be simple and profoundly educational.

42 also hosts a forum on Intra, which is a great page to get information that will help you solve the problems every day. Sometimes the forum is dead, other times it is booming with conversations and useful information. The forum is only as good as the students who use it so I strongly recommend anyone attending 42 to take full advantage of it.

I saved the most interesting part of Intra for last. Rather than have classes and separate people by year and age, 42 uses an experience system. As you successfully complete projects with a passing evaluation you work closer to leveling up. Leveling up means you have acquired new skills which include technical skills as well as soft skills, each craved and acclaimed by IT companies. Each one of the 4 steps of the curriculum matches an in game experience level: 0 for the first step, 7 for the second step, 10 for the third one, and 20 for the last step. Reaching level 21 marks the end of the curriculum, even though this level can be exceeded.

Prospective 42 student’s should be anxious to get onto Intra, as it means you are well on your way to becoming a 42 student.
