How does the curriculum change? What is the difference between the piscine and 42 the school?
December 10, 2016

I am writing this post to explain the difference between the piscine and the actual school.

As excited as I was during the piscine, no matter how much I wanted to get in,  or as convinced I was their pedagogy was working, nothing could hide the fact that I was still concerned. After the piscine, there was one big question I still had lingering. What is the school like? What is going to change when I become a full-time student? Was I prepared for this environment?
How has intra changed?

One thing I was already prepared for was this really amazing part of Intra, our Galaxy. If you don’t know what the intra is read this: Navigating Intra. The galaxy is an overhead view of all of the projects available to 42 students. Think of it like a map, where access to projects only become available after previous paths have been completed. I have explored the paths available to me and truthfully look forward to the challenge. The galaxy adds an extra layer of gamification which really helps make the pedagogy engaging.

There are other new things too. Such as a calendar which tracks your log time every day. The wheel that tracked your progress during the piscine now contains 17 elements. Unix, Security, Network & System Administration, Graphics, and Algorithms and AI just to name a few. Another thing I instantly noticed is that my level has been reset to zero and I am now called a cadet.

Life as a cadet?

In all honesty, I try to treat my day to day life very similar to the piscine. I wake up early without snooze. Shower, eat breakfast and start my day. I take the few minute walk from the dorms to the clusters and work there until the late hours of the night. Literally only leaving to eat lunch and dinner.

I would say one of the biggest differences and probably the best part of becoming a full-time student is often after dinner I don’t return to campus. Since I am now free to make my own decisions, agenda, and schedule I often find something entertaining to do.

At 42 we have already set up a network of activities for cadets to partake in. Some of my favorites are Board Games, Poker, Tennis, Ping Pong, Flow, Video Games, and moonlight. However, there are dozens more such as Music, Movies, Anime, Basketball, and Sports. If there is an activity out there 42 has a community to support it.  I think being a part of this community and supporting it is one of the coolest new aspects of being a cadet.

What are the Projects?

Ok, now it is time to answer the big question. The thing that intimidated me most about succeeding and getting accepted to 42 was a concern of whether I could complete the problems a cadet would face. Now that I am a student I know what these problems are, and although I look forward to the challenge I realize I had a reason to be concerned.

The school is not easier than the piscine and passing the piscine does not necessarily mean you are fully prepared for the school. I am not quite sure I was. The problems become projects that require a lot of algorithmic thinking and a detailed understanding of C to succeed. I have faith though and believe 42 knows through their selection criteria that cadets are capable of these things.

I tell myself that because I was selected and that comforts me. Really though I am mostly comforted by the fact that we are still part of the same wonderful community of aspiring software developers that pulled each other through the piscine. Getting stuck means I simply turn to a classmate and ask how they approached this part of their problem. Or I sign up for corrections until I get to see how someone else implemented their solution.

We are still all working on the same problems or have already solved them and therefore have a great understanding of the obstacles each other face. Every correction is a lottery shot at grading a cool project you haven’t even begun to think about. By spending all day discussing, teaching and thinking about code we help each other solve these seemingly impossible tasks.

I can say that I struggle daily now as much as I did in the piscine but as I realized before I realize now; I am learning constantly. This struggle and the process of working and building code every day is teaching me all kinds of amazing things along the way. With the help of my fellow cadets, daily I learn new shortcuts, commands, and algorithms that make me code more efficiently. So, although the problems are harder and even though I struggle every day. I realize just like I did before… that I love every second of it.
