Head games at the Piscine. 42 finally broke me.

Before I came to Fremont to try my hand at “La Piscine” I scoured the internet for information. Often I read how difficult it is and how you just have to get used to failure. Therefore, I had a better understanding of what to expect. I can honestly say that I grossly underestimated the obstacles I would face.

Today for the first time I let the difficulties of the projects, the unrealistic time constraints, and continuous failure get to me.

I am confident saying that I am normally a really happy person. I just don’t see the point of living a day to day life of anger or sadness. Life is just better when you are happy.

So, it was apparent to me at approximately 11:42 tonight that I just wasn’t myself. I had been working HARD all day on a project and about 40 minutes before it was due somebody pointed out to me that my code for an earlier assignment did not work.

See, at 42 the exercises are assigned in order of difficulty from easiest to hardest and if you fail to pass any of the easier exercises all of the more difficult projects aren’t even graded; whether they work or not. Therefore, by failing to properly check my code I made earlier in the day I had set myself up for defeat.

I frantically worked to fix my code, test it, compile it and push it. For me that is a great deal to accomplish in 40 minutes. By the time I had actually fixed it and tested it I had a mere 8 minutes to turn it in. I managed that as it is not too difficult, however after the time limit was over I realized that I only turned in up to the project I had just fixed. So, it didn’t matter whether or not all of the other functions I had created worked because I never even turned them in.

I had big expectations for the day, and once again I let myself down. All of the other times I failed didn’t even phase me, because I could see how much I had improved. However, at that time I was far away from that logic. I was mad, like Bowser losing Peach again mad.

I didn’t handle it very well. As soon as I realized my mistake I stormed out of the room; just to get away from computers. I was so frustrated I couldn’t think clearly. All of my thoughts were negative and it seemed like my dreams were becoming obsolete. It was so bad I literally googled how to cheer yourself up.

The search returned a couple of helpful links filled with motivational meme’s which helped a little, but I was far from myself. I looked back at some things that always made me feel better and came up with an idea. I went outside and looked for something to break.

My solution was to smash boxes. I slammed them around, stomped on them, and ripped them to pieces, it felt good. Luckily, a friend came and just died of laughter. He was happy to see someone else struggling with the same problems that had been plaguing him all week. His laughter made me realize how ridiculous I was being which at least got me to stop my rampage. I didn’t know it but what I really needed to do was vent. Just telling him what had happened and why took a load off my shoulders. It also helped that we were outside so I could yell. By just raising the tone of my voice I was able express my passion for the situation and something about that made me feel better. After venting to a couple more people I was finally able to reset. I felt like myself again and could look back and laugh at the whole situation.

So, yes they broke me, but that doesn’t mean I am defeated. I really love 42 and the challenges it presents, just sometimes it can really get to you. However, if you have good friends, a way to vent, and an awareness of your mental state; anger is just another obstacle to traverse. I strongly recommend to any prospective 42 students to take my earlier approach and just look at your improvement day to day. It is amazing, and it worked for a really long time. But if you do wind up feeling defeated take the time to cheer yourself up again. It could really be the difference between success and failure not just at 42 but anywhere.
