Meeting Industry Giants Sal Khan

Before I came to 42 I wrote somewhere that one thing I wanted to get out of my experience was a chance to meet industry giants. I was trying to say that I was hoping 42 would bring in big names in the technology industry. People who had made it. Men or women who infiltrated the technology community and made a name for themselves. Whether in the form of a startup, a CEO, or even an employee, I wanted to hear stories of how to succeed in this industry. As usual, 42 has not disappointed.

I can already say that twice now I have been given the chance to meet a successful entrepreneur I look up to. Beyond that, I have met countless individuals who have broken the barrier into the tech industry. It is always nice to hear their story, their perspective. If given the opportunity I drill them with questions. Soaking in all of the information I can. Here I would like to recap these encounters before they start piling up.

The first was our experience meeting Sal Khan. Khan is the founder and creator of Khan Academy. An online school that hands out an entire high school education for free. It is done via a website where students read, watch videos, do practice problems and complete projects to level up and unlock more content. It is a very user-friendly way to gameify a high school education.

I know Sal Khan from a time long before his website became what it is today. In college, I was taking Applied Calculus and Statistics. I was having a really hard time keeping up with my professors and understanding the course material. Sal Kahn was my savior. He taught me more than all three of my math professors combined.

At the time he was just doing videos. Giving people free lessons on how to do almost anything in math. What started as a kind gesture to help his niece who was half way across the world has turned into one of the simplest ways to get a high school level education online. Amazingly Khan has stayed true to himself and his product is still free and available to help anyone. This story of a kind gesture changing the world really inspires me.

Our morning with Khan involved a tour of the school and a nice little question and answer session with the man himself. We asked him questions about building a business, we asked about the progress of Khan Academy, we asked for his perspective on our education and the state of the tech industry, and we asked for tips on working efficiently. He was as eager to help and educate as we were tentative and appreciative. It was an incredibly rewarding and educational experience.

Sal’s business has grown from making videos in his spare time to a brick and mortar high school. I can only hope to grow a business from the ground up doing what I love like he did. For Sal Khan it was making videos to help anyone understand math problems they found difficult. It has motivated me to really find something I am that passionate about. Something useful that I could be interested in doing for the rest of my life. Thank You Sal Khan for both helping me in college and for inspiring me to find and do what I love.
