My July 2016 Piscine!!!
August 10, 2016

Looking back on my month at 42 there are a few things that stand out. To start there is the weather in Fremont, where the sun is alway shining and a cool breeze always blows. There is also the revolutionary pedagogy I experienced and the ridiculous amount I learned. I have written extensively about all of these topics but never really gave credit where it is truly due. 42 gave me this amazing opportunity but it was the people around me who actually taught me everything.

42 is a true melting pot where individuals from all ends of the earth come together with a similar goal in mind. Gain a breadth of computer skills in a revolutionary environment for free. This environment was our campus where my peers and I spent all day in the clusters working hard together. Hoping to find solutions to these very vague and very difficult problems they presented us with.

Every day I would spend hours teaching myself. And every day once I started trying to implement what I had learned I would hit a snag. Something I didn’t understand, some error I had never experienced, some syntax error I just couldn’t find. Fortunately, all of the amazing people around me were always there to help. I could always just twist my chair around ask any of the students and they were always quick to assist. Even if the question was as dumb as “why do I need this squiggly line?” we didn’t treat it that way. There were no dumb questions just opportunities to learn. Together we found solutions to each others problems which taught us all along the way.

I met so many amazing people who undoubtedly changed me for the better. By providing little pointers to operating faster. Showing me how to write shorter, more efficient, easier to understand code. Making far fetched concepts simple and easy to grasp. Even teaching me about cultures I had yet to experience. My peers carried me through the piscine.

I was exposed to many different cultures and interesting perspectives, all without judgment. We were all interested in each other’s stories and experience. I learned of hundreds of different paths to 42, all with their own sacrifices and worlds left behind. That was the beauty of the experience, we all came together and struggled through the same problems and solved them as a community.

That’s what it really was, “a feeling of fellowship with others, as a result of sharing common attitudes, interests, and goals.” 42, July Piscine 2016, my friends I made along the way we made it. We lasted all 30 days worked and studied our hearts out. Sacrificed and suffered together. I know it is unrealistic but I hope we all get in. It just wouldn’t feel the same not having all of you to turn to for your variety of advice. You will all be missed.
