 Working together on Rush. The 42 Piscine Large Group Projects

Every weekday at the piscine students are given access to a large set of problems. These problems increase in difficulty until they are so difficult that even veteran coders spend hours solving them. Every weekend at the piscine the projects get even more difficult. The task at hand changes from the numerous overwhelming daily exercises to single much larger more demanding problems. Fortunately, there are only two of them.

For both Saturday and Sunday every week students are expected to complete a large personal project and coordinate an even more strenuous group project. Obviously, the group projects are some of the more difficult problems presented at the piscine. Even with a few great minds attacking the problems they still take several days to complete. Often it is a matter of choosing one or the other as it is hard to effectively work with a team and find time to work on the individual projects. It is an interesting balance but with good time management and effective team work both projects are surmountable.

Teams are assembled at random and not even released until late Friday night. Therefore teams have a mere 48 hours to meet, form a plan, create an algorithm and then implement it. With a lot of hard work and effective testing teams are fortunate to turn in a program that meets the rigorous standards of the 42 staff. The group projects are the only ones during the piscine that aren’t graded by a computer. Instead, the group as a whole must meet with a couple members of the staff and defend their code, with an interesting twist. The entire group is graded on the weakest understanding. Therefore, it is important to get everyone involved and make sure they understand how and why each piece of the code is used.

There are several ways to go about this and honestly each one of my experiences has been different. Sometimes, each team member is assigned a certain function to build and then they are collectively assembled. Another method would be to build the program as a group; each assisting with every step of the process. I have even seen groups let one person build the entire program and then spend days making sure everyone understands it. Each process has it’s pros and cons but it is most important that every team member learns in the process. No matter how your team goes about it if you leave someone out and don’t make sure they understand what has been built then everyone will fail.

With the right approach and some intricate coordination these group projects can be the most satisfying to build. They really put into perspective the amazing things you can do with programming and exemplify how far a little teamwork can take you. There are a lot of brilliant students at this school and these group projects give you an opportunity to work with and learn from people you otherwise may never have met.
