Our July 2016 Piscine Staff at 42!!
August 15, 2016

Here is the staff I was blessed with for the July 2016 piscine. At the beginning of the piscine, it can almost feel like the staff is your enemy. As if they are out to get you and make you fail. At the very least it is obvious they are not there to help you. At least that is how it seems.

In fact, all of these things couldn’t be further from the truth. By the end of my month, I came to really appreciate every one of them and the things they do for both 42 and us as students. They might not specifically answer questions but that is because they understand like you will learn, that struggling is part of the process. They do it not out of spite but in your better interest. That is another thing I later realized, the staff is truly invested in your success.

They really do want you to do well. They want to admit you. They give you all of the materials you need, they just want to see you find and define success on your own. Not even on your own but as a group, the whole piscine, they want to see you succeed together.

Just as you work hard on difficult problem sets every day, the staff has worked hard developing them. They are invested in you because they have put in the blood sweat and tears of getting the school operational. I complain often about the 15 hour days of the piscine but the staff was there right along with us. Setting up computers, setting up the server and the network, unloading trucks, grading us, doing check-ins, and I am sure constantly evaluating us and so much more.

I can say now that I am away and the piscine is over, I already miss them. They may not have literally taught me anything, but they really did. They built this whole opportunity and thus were responsible for teaching me everything. On top of that, they are all really awesome and intelligent people.

Whether it was Gaetan telling me how terrible my code is, or designing this whole agonizing experience. Or Megan who helped inspire me to write this blog. Antoine who didn’t kick me out when I started yelling during an exam and is convinced “It doesn’t work”. Quibi trolling from afar and laughing at our suffering. Maelle giving me my first success all month long. Lou finding interesting ways to entertain us and pull us away from the computers. Brittany who I could tell had a lot on her plate the whole month and was handling it like a champ. Alexis peering over my shoulder in roller blades. Kevin, Cupcake, and Bruno commenting behind your back in french and laughing hysterically. Anthony building amazing videos. Henri breaking my code on the first test. Or Jamie who kept me level headed, gave the best high fives and came by to give me words of encouragement I really needed in the last week.

I will miss all of you. I want you to know that I can see all of the work you are putting in and can tell you care about the community. I certainly appreciate it and I know the rest of my piscine does too. We enjoyed our torture and look forward to working with you all as actual students. Thank You.

I can only hope that every piscine could be so lucky and have as great a staff as we did.
