 The 42 Campus

I have been here for over two weeks now and I just realized I haven’t given the campus the respect it deserves. Although the actual 42 building is still under construction I have seen what it is going to look like and the concept is beautiful. As construction completes I will update this page with more and more photos, as well as descriptions, to give prospective students an idea of where they are heading.

First and foremost I want to explain how AMAZING the weather is.  I am from Ohio, and this time of year it is beautiful there as well. However, all 15 days I have been in Fremont the weather has been exceptional. I mean I can’t really put it into words. The sun is bright, there are no clouds, and it hasn’t rained once. I wake up every morning step outside and just bask in the rays. Fremont is unique because unlike anywhere else I have been where the sun is always shining, it is not hot. The temperature has never broke 90, there is no humidity, and until the sun goes down it stays in the low 80’s.

Truth be told, I haven’t even left the mile or so surrounding campus. So I can really only speak for our school, our dorms and the nearest strip malls.

I will start with the dorms. To me they are more than adequate. I went to University back in 2008 and compared to the dorms I resided in my Freshman year, these are suites. Every room has its own bathroom and shower. They come equipped with two beds, two desks, two chairs and two dressers. There is even a closet for each resident. The furniture is typical dorm room furniture but it is more than enough. Each floor has its own laundry facility with a few washers and a couple dryers. I can say I live fairly comfortably, even if I don’t get to spend much time there. I really only go to the dorms to sleep shower and eat. Inside our dorms is also our cafeteria, which you can read more about here(http://wp.me/p7HjA4-2u). Hopefully, if I get to attend 42 full-time I might actually be able to enjoy the recreation room, the weight room, or the large green space splitting the halls of the dorm.

As for the school itself, it is extremely comfortable. It is a really large building that is only a few minute walk from the dorms. As of now 42 is only using the second story, but as of next year they will take over the whole thing. In the meantime, Devry University still uses the bottom half. Upstairs are four clusters which will be filled with over a thousand computers. Currently half of them are up and running. The sections are spacious and designed to promote interaction amongst students. Amazingly, we all have very comfortable office chairs, which is nice considering we are expected to spend around 15 hours a day in them. Downstairs, there is also a large recreation room, with vending machines, a pool table and a piano. Sometimes it is just a nice place to get away. If you are lucky you might just walk in while one of the many talented students are jamming away at keys that aren’t on a keyboard.

A quick ten minute walk from the school and even less from the dorms is a large shopping center. Although to get there you have to traverse a a few obstacles I can assure you it is worth the trip. There are a lot of dining options which include: Jack in the Box, Pizza, Chipotle, Boba Tea, Starbucks, Sushi, Burger King, Ihop, Panda Express, McDonald’s, Tasty Pot, Del Taco … The list goes on and on. As far as shopping goes there is a department store called Ross, a CVS, a few gas stations, but most importantly a grocery store named Safeway. Safeway has everything you would expect from a modern grocery, a bakery, a deli, produce, everything you might need for a break from the cafeteria. With a car I am sure the options only grow. I think 42 students are fortunate to have all of these options within such a short walking distance from the school.

I certainly look forward to the building being completed but in the meantime I am happy to call 42 my home. More than the weather, the facilities, and the neighborhood it is the people who make this place great. I have made many friends all of whom do their best to not only make sure I succeed but everyone around them. I look forward to seeing all of them again this fall and would be sad if any did not make the cut following the piscine.
