What is La Piscine? The final step to admission at 42.

La Piscine is french for The Pool. It is called the pool yet there is no water, no swimming, and no lifeguards. It has been dubbed the piscine because the experience is a lot like getting thrown in the deep end and being told to sink or swim.

La Piscine is a total immersion experience. Where candidates hoping to be admitted as full time students at 42 work together on problems with little to no help from anyone but their peers. They are expected to use all of the resources at their disposal; the internet, the manual, and each other.

I started writing this post a few days ago, when I was filled with optimism, excitement, and joy. After day one of La Piscine, I now have a better idea of what I am getting myself into. Those feelings have nearly faded and been replaced with intimidation, exhaustion and maybe a little disheartened.

The piscine is hard. That is all there is to it. It takes a lot of self motivation and drive just to get there and start working. It takes a bit of intellect and a lot of research to actually solve the problems. Then even when you have solutions, it is rare they are truly correct.

To most people and even me, this can be really deflating. Knowing you tried so hard, found something that works and then being shown you’re far from complete. It is also difficult to take on such large tasks, knowing that even more difficult problems are on the horizon.

You begin with nothing but a video. In it a gargantuan man named Thor explains what is expected from you and where to start. The first task is to sign in to intra, 42’s main hub for well everything. There is a problem set for day one with just a few videos to point you in the right direction. The videos are about text editors, the command line, and git.

Even the students with years of experience struggle to answer the problems presented at the piscine. For the most part we are all on the same page. This is good; since we are all struggling to stay afloat it becomes vital that we help one another. In fact I would consider finding someone who is in a similar spot struggling a key to advancing at 42.

We come in, we log on, and we work all day and into the night. It sounds grueling sitting in front of a computer for 15+ hours a day but in reality it is an honor. Plus, for me the time just flies by. Probably because I am doing something that interests me, I mean I am intrigued and my mind never stops working. It has been a long time since I have been challenged like this and I am actually thankful for the opportunity.

I wasn’t trying to glorify the experience because like I said it is hard. However, that doesn’t mean we don’t have fun. Everyone here is optimistic, kind and most importantly they aren’t critical, they’re helpful. It makes for a really good time.
