Why the revolutionary programming school 42 seemed perfect for me.

This page is meant for anyone who is undecided on whether to attend 42.

If you haven’t already I strongly encourage you to read my blog post What is 42. This gives you all the information you should need to make an informed decision.

After reading that if you’re still undecided, don’t worry it is completely normal. Making these kind of decisions is difficult. Thats why I put together this post. I wanted to tell prospective students what pushed me to make the jump.

Computer programming started as a hobby. Something I wanted to teach myself to do. At first I was entranced. Spending every hour I wasn’t at work watching lectures, debugging code, and even writing programs. I was learning through a bunch of different outlets but mostly CS50, MIT open courseware, Edx and the book How to think like a computer scientist.

I quickly ran into a problem. I had no one I could turn to and ask questions. If there was a concept I didn’t understand, a function I didn’t know how to use, or a syntax error I couldn’t find there was no one I knew who had any experience in it. Let alone who was interested.

I don’t mean to discourage you from learning via the Internet. All of those resources I listed are amazing and will teach you the skills they promise, but I needed help. In fact I eventually gave up.

Not having anyone to turn to wasn’t the only reason I got discouraged. I had a really hard time explaining to people that I couldn’t see them because I was learning. Since I wasn’t actually a student and didn’t have classes no one took me seriously. My main problem was when someone asked to hang out or to go to lunch, they thought I was blowing them off when I said “I can’t I have class.”

At this point I started applying to local Colleges and Universities with the intentions of one day attending The Ohio State University. For an Ohio resident, OSU is one of the cheapest bachelor’s degrees you can get. Yet I still dreaded the sticker price. About $12,000 a year or $25,000 if you live on campus. Going to school is expensive but I was willing to suck it up, and go into crippling debt, for an education in something I was interested in.

42 fixes all of these problems and so many more. I would no longer have to pay for school because 42 is free. I would actually be attending a University, and have a brick and mortar building to learn in. Best of all, I would be surrounded by people who were interested in the same subject and struggling with the same problems. So for me the first time I read an article about 42 I was intrigued.

After scouring the internet for any information I could find, I decided 42 does so many things well that it is a no-brainer. At this point I am convinced that anyone interested in Computer Science who needs experience should give 42 a try. Other things that make 42 so great are:

    It is open to anyone 18 to 30 of any race, sex, education, experience or financial background.
    Over 1,ooo brand new iMacs.
    It is located in the heart of Silicon Valley
    They partner with local Tech giants.
    Open 24/7
    Kwame

Alright, so maybe I am a little biased. Truthfully, I carefully considered all of these things and I decided it was so worth it that I quit my job and moved all the way across the country for this opportunity. The pros simply out weigh the cons, wait… are there any?
